# Math76

## Abstract

We introduce a new approach to measuring team strength based off an N-Max framework. The N-Max framework draws upon ideas of teamwork and chemistry within management and sociology to help form an NBA team score which is based on diversity. The main tenant of the N-Max framework hinges upon the fact that not all the players in any given lineup need to be good in every aspect. Instead, teams should focus on maxing individual factors for only the best N players. This draws upon the idea that different expertise in different areas leads to a more robust and resilient team. The building of the model is based upon empirical evidence from play, past research on the importance of various factors in winning games, and intuitive metrics that promote diversity and cohesion on and off the court. We find that the model can strongly predict the number of wins a given lineup will have during the course of a season, and thus the end of season standings, but does not do particularly well in predicting the outcomes of specific games. Furthermore, the model provides weak evidence of the rise of “super-teams” in the NBA which consist of four or five All-Star caliber players. The ability of the model to measure team power with respect to chemistry without data from existing lineups means that it can ex-ante generate predicted success for any given lineup, whether or not the lineup has been played before. Also, because the model does not explicitly rank individual players, the N-Max framework can predict mutually beneficial trades.
